Add howto for local clone (#569)
JabRef/user-documentation: en/contributing/README.md

# Contribute to JabRef [![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/JabRef/jabref](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/JabRef/jabref)

We are really happy that you are interested in contributing to JabRef. Please take your time to look around here. We especially invite you to look into our [community members page](https://discourse.jabref.org/t/community-members/1868?u=koppor) where members introduce themselves.

> **I would like to try out a feature introduced at pull request. What are the steps?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**I would like to try out a feature introduced at pull request.**
```

In JabRef, there are dozens of bug fixes and new features introduced using GitHub's pull request mechansim.
You can browse all at <https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/pulls>.
The JabRef team really welcomes users to try out these additions and to comment on them.

> Getting in improvements at this stage is much easier than fixing afterwards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Improving on changes in active pull requests is much easier than fixing them later on after their acceptance.
```

> Getting in improvements at this stage is much easier than fixing afterwards.

Reviewer 2: But last time I wanted to say something in an issue, you said it's feature creep :(

Author: I think, its a case-by-case basis 😅. We as team need to see whether its a quick win on an existing issue (e.g., renaming butotns) or a large improvement. If it is an improvment, we need to judge if tis doable in the scope of the PR or should be done as follow-up. - Currently, the priority is on getting PRs merged, as we have more than 10 opened pul requests. - BTW, I am sure, I have not used the word "feature creep" 😇

If you and the command line are friends, then it is very easy to try out pull requests and give feedback.
In the following, we try to give a minimal set of installation instructions to be able to run a contribution from a fork.

Prerequisites:

> - [`git`](https://git-scm.com/) - The version control system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`git`](https://git-scm.com/) - The version control system.
```

> - [GitHubCLI](https://cli.github.com/) - A command-line client to GitHub install it using the installer linked from their [homepage]((https://cli.github.com/)) or [the commands given at the installation hints](https://github.com/cli/cli#installation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [GitHubCLI](https://cli.github.com/) - A command-line client for GitHub. You can install it using the installer linked on their [homepage]((https://cli.github.com/)) or the commands given at the [installation hints](https://github.com/cli/cli#installation).
```

> - A JabRef project checkout. On Windows, we recommend:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A JabRef project clone. On Windows, we recommend:
```

  - `mkdir c:\git-repositories`
  - `cd c:\git-repositories`
  - `git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/JabRef/jabref.git JabRef`
  - `cd JabRef`

> - [`gg.cmd`](https://github.com/eirikb/gg) - A cross-platform and cross-architecture version manager. Download [`gg.cmd`](https://github.com/eirikb/gg/releases/latest/download/gg.cmd) and store it in the `JabRef` directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`gg.cmd`](https://github.com/eirikb/gg) - A cross-platform and cross-architecture version manager. Download [`gg.cmd`](https://github.com/eirikb/gg/releases/latest/download/gg.cmd) and store it in the `JabRef` directory.
```

Try a branch:

1. `cd` into the `JabRef` directory: `cd c:\git-repositories\JabRef`
2. Checkout out the pull request: `gh pr checkout 13111` - where `13111` is the PR number, in this case [pr#13111](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/pull/13111)

> 3. Compile and run JabRef `gg.cmd gradle run :jabgui:run` (on Linux and macOS, you need to prefix it with `sh`: `gg.cmd gradle run :jabgui:run`). This will also download the necessary JDK and gradle distribution. In the first run, please give the system about 4 minutes until the GUI is shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Compile and run JabRef: `gg.cmd gradle run :jabgui:run` (on Linux and macOS, you need to prefix it with `sh`: `gg.cmd gradle run :jabgui:run`). This will also download the necessary JDK and gradle distribution. In the first run, please give the system about 4 minutes until the GUI is shown.
```

> 3. Compile and run JabRef `gg.cmd gradle run :jabgui:run` (on Linux and macOS, you need to prefix it with `sh`: `gg.cmd gradle run :jabgui:run`). This will also download the necessary JDK and gradle distribution. In the first run, please give the system about 4 minutes until the GUI is shown.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Compile and run JabRef: `gg.cmd gradle run :jabgui:run` (on Linux and macOS, you need to prefix it with `sh`: `gg.cmd gradle run :jabgui:run`). This will also download the necessary JDK and gradle distribution. On the first run, please give the system enough time to accomodate and wait until the JabRef window launches.
```
Hard-coding a time when hardware and internet-connection plans of users and developers differs is bad practice.

Alternatives:

> 1. You "just" need a JDK installed to run `./gradlew`: Gradle automatically downloads the JDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You have the project clone ready but "just" need a JDK installed to run: In the `JabRef directory, execute `./gradlew run`. Gradle automatically downloads the JDK and launches JabRef.
```

> 2. You can use the "usual" `git clone`, `git remote add ...`, `git fetch ...`, and `git checkout ...` commands to checkout a pull request from a fork.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You can use the "usual" `git clone ...`, `git remote add ...`, `git fetch ...`, and `git checkout ...` commands to checkout a pull request from a fork.
```

> **I would like to improve the help page. What are the steps?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**I would like to improve the help page.**
```

Please see [How to Improve the Help Page](how-to-improve-the-help-page.md)

> **I would like to help to translate JabRef to another language. How do I get started?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**I would like to help to translate JabRef to another language.**
```
